Welcome to Google Analytics for beginners by the end of this training you will have a professional level
understanding of Google Analytics and also on other practical steps to use it as a powerful tool to
grow a business.
By the end of this training you specifically know why you should be using Google Analytics how Google
Analytics works how to set up Google Analytics how to create additional reporting views had about filters
to use how to set up Google Analytics goals how to navigate Google Analytics and use the main tools
for analyze key reports set up dashboards track marketing campaigns and link analytics with
Google ads which was formerly known as Google Adword.
So we've got a ton of great stuff to get through.
Let's dive straight into it.
So why should you be using Google Analytics.
Well if you are a marketer business owner or entrepreneur then Google Analytics is probably the most
important too.
You can learn how to use and that is because successful businesses are not built on guesswork.
They thrive on your ability to make data driven decisions.
And Google Analytics really gives you the metrics to see what's working and what's not working so that
you can do more watts work.
And with that analytics in place you're really flying blind.
And the famous management consultant Peter Drucker said it best.
He said if you can't measure is you can't improve it.
I think that really just sums up the importance of Google Analytics to business.
Google Analytics is also the industry standard for web analytics and it's really a requirement to apply
for any digital marketing or advertising position.
So that really sums up the benefits of good Google Analytics for business and also for a career in digital
marketing advertising So how does Google Analytics actually work.
Well to collect data a small piece of tracking code is added to each page on a website and the tracking
code will collect anonymous information about how a visitor interacts with the site.
For example it will know where else the page is visited.
And with this information Google Analytics can calculate which pages are most popular.
We're determine if users reach the purchase confirmation page and thus record that a purchase was made.
Now Google Analytics will also collect information like the language that the browser was set to that
type of browsers such as chrome or Safari the device operating system located age and gender of the
user and it can even collect the traffic source which brought the user to the site in the first place.
And this might be the search engine an advertisement that clicked on or an e-mail marketing campaign
a google on X uses a browser cookie which is a small piece of text that they store in your browser to
generate a brand name I.D. to distinguish between new and returning visitors and really to tie all the
activity of a visitor up into one single visit.
And each period of activity is called the session.
And Google Analytics ends a session by default after 30 minutes of inactivity or when the user closes
the browser window.
And finally all of this information is sent to Google on links and populated to use reports for you.
Let's go through the steps there to set up Google Analytics.
And it's a fairly simple process.
The first step is to create or sign into your Google Analytics account and to that just go to Google
dot com forward slash analytics.
Second step then is to set up a property and a property represents your Web site Arap and it's the collection
points in the legs for your data.
So you just need to fill out the property name and some information that matters.
Third step then is to add the tracking code to your Web site.
And this is how you send information from your web site back to Google Analytics.
So you need to go to the admin section and then come up and get the tracking code which is here and
copy and paste this tracking code onto each page that you want to track after the opening had tag.
So you'll need to edit the code of your web site and that could be a pretty scary thing to do if you've
never coded before.
But the great news is that a lot of platforms like Wordpress or Shopify who just allowed you to copy
and paste this tracking code into one little section on you will be tracking google analytics across
all the pages of your web site.
The final step then to set up is just to verify that the tracking code is working and to do that and
you can open up your Web site in a separate tab.
Google Analytics open in another tab and you want to come into the real time reports and just look that
your visit is being registered.
So if it's working you'll see one visit there and that's because you have your own site open in another
tab that's go through the steps there to create additional reporting views on a reporting view is the
level in a non-Linux a case where you can access reports and analysis tools.
And this is what the structure looks like at the top you've got your accounts inside your accounts you've
got your property and you can out of the 50 properties to each You can't.
And then inside your property you have your view where your reporting views.
And this is just a defined review of your data and you can out 25 views to property.
So why would you want to create these additional reporting views.
Well when you add your property to an account analytics creates a reporting view for that proper property
automatically and it's best practice to leave this original view unchanged.
So you always have a backup of your raw data.
So the main reason you want to create another view is that you can leave that original view untouched
and you always back of your data.
But there are other reasons to create fuse and apply filters to them and really to see specific subsets
of data and you want to do this for a couple of reasons.
One is for convenience if you consistently need to look at a particular subset of the data.
For example just visits from the U.S. and it's much easier to have a view that's dedicated to that data.
So you would create a view and then filter to include only visits from the U.S. and that can be very
convenient for you or for a team that is based there.
You can also create additional views for data security reasons and you might want to give the editorial
team access to the analytics reports for the company blog but you want to restrict access to sensitive
data like e-commerce data.
So we created additional view and then filter out the e-commerce data.
You might also want to create an additional view for data accuracy reasons and this is probably the
main reason that people create additional views so you can filter I dated like spam traffic and internal
traffic and really have more accurate reports and only record the visits of your actual customers and
not information like your own visits or spam traffic visits.
So Google Analytics recommends you set up at least three views.
The raw data view the test for you in the master view and the raw data view this is really your original
view and it should be left unfiltered and untouched.
And in this way you can always go back to all the data that has been collected if you need and you're
not risking anything getting lost.
Now the second view is your test view and this is the place for testing new filters to see how your
traffic gets affected before you add them to your main view.
And by testing first you can make sure you are not filtering any visitors that you write otherwise would
expect to show up.
And this really leaves you more reliable data.
And finally you have your master view and this is your main view on this one.
You should use to read your day to day today and you can add your already tested filters here.
So how do you actually create additional views.
Well it's very simple.
You just want to go to the admin section once again going to the top right hand corner and click Create
view and then you want to add the view name and time zone so you can just fill in some details there.
And then click Create view.
Now a couple of limits and caveats is you should be aware of the default unfiltered view created by
Google Analytics.
When you set up your account will be called all web site data.
So you might want to rename that to be your raw data view and to set up those other views to match the
names that Google recommends.
Also want a new view is created on the Web site data from the data view was created will be included.
So that's why it's really best practice to set up these three views recommended by Google.
As soon as you set up your at all also just finally it's good to know that if you delete a view you've
only 35 days to restore it.
So there is a limit on that as well.
So those are the steps to add additional reporting views to Google Analytics and the reasons that you
would really want to do that.
Let's go through the steps to add filters to the additional views that you have created and filters
to include exclude or modify the data that you collect in a view on some of the most common filters
that you'll see use are.
For example the filter to exclude internal traffic and you don't really want to skew your data with
the internal traffic and that's visits from say you personally or people in your office so you can create
a filter that excludes that traffic and you can identify that traffic with your own IP address or maybe
an IP address range for your office.
You can also filter domain referrals.
And this is great to reduce spam traffic from your analytics data.
So you just need to create a filter and then input these selected domains that are sending spam traffic
and filter those out.
You can also filter on geography and this is maybe one of the reasons food for convenience.
You can consolidate countries into sales regions such as a pack of meat or North America.
Google Analytics won't have done this by default.
They just show countries.
So in this way you can track data from a region that's spread across multiple countries and you could
just see say the North American data consolidated into region and you just create a view and really
filter to that data.
There are also search and replace filters which can be very useful to replace codes or long or else
with simpler more intuitive versions.
So for example you could replace a big product ID like one two three four five six with the product
name.
And therefore when you look at your Google Analytics reports it's a lot more intuitive and easier for
you to read.
So how do you set up filters.
Well firstly just go to the admin section once again and then come up and click on filters create a
new filter and just know that you will need added access to add filters to view.
So if you're looking at the Google Analytics demo Cain't you won't see this option because you just
have read and analyze access.
Step two then is to define the filter and the filter name and select the filter type that you want and
then specify the information that you want to include or exclude.
So in this example here I've just said that I want to really filter my internal traffic and I put in
my IP address and in that way any visits from this device won't appear in my Google Analytics reports
and I'll just be seeing the visits from my actual potential customers.
Now couple of limits and caveats so you should be aware of about filters that they require up to 24
hours before they are applied to your data and filter order also does matter.
So Google Analytics filters are applied in the order in which they're set up in your view.
And if there's a chance that one filter influences the other you can assign the filter order and you
see the button to the next to the area where you've set up your filters you can just move them around
and change the filter order.
And the important thing to know about filters is that they are destructive.
So if a filter excludes data from a view that data can never be recovered again and therefore does to
reiterate.
That's why you should always maintain an unfiltered view of your data so you can have access to the
full data set and you can always make a copy of that original unfiltered view and start again and apply
filters to it if you need to.
So also filters cannot be applied retrospectively.
So one state has been processed in the in the report that cannot be filtered out.
And that's one of the reasons that you want to set these filters up straight away.
Once you set up your Google Analytics accounts.
So those are the steps to set up filters.
Some example filters and some caveats and limits that you should be aware of before setting them up.
Let's go through now how it set up Google Analytics goals and goes measure how well your site or app
fulfills your target objectives.
And really this is a key part of setting up google analytics because goals enable you to measure how
often users complete an activity called a conversion that contributes to the success of your business
and you're not just looking at numbers of page views or visitors in your reports.
So by setting up goals you're putting a whole new lens on the data in your Google Analytics reports
and really seeing that what are the traffic sources or users subsets or any devices that are delivering
the conversions not just the page views of visitors.
So also by setting up goals you can see data in your goal reports and any other report that provide
data and goals and goal conversions you can identify the traffic source that delivers the most conversions
not just visitors you can identify the subset of users.
As I said you can track the exact pathways even the users take before completing goals so what are the
three pages that they visited before they converted.
And in that way you can really understand what influences their decision to convert.
You can also track the number of completions for an individual marketing campaign.
So really track not just how many web site visitors that marketing campaigns deliver but how many of
those resulted in a conversion something that was important to our business.
So let's get into the examples to make this really clear.
A newsletter sign up complete an online payments and completion of a game level contact information
form submitted free trial account creation white paper ebook downloaded point and created.
These are all examples of goals that you would want to try.
Because they really do help grow your business much more than just visitors to the Web site.
So how do you set up goals.
First you just need to go to the admin section once again click on the code section and add a new goal
and just send out once again you will need added access to create goals.
So you might see the option to add a new goal in the demo account.
Step two then is to complete the goal.
The strict description so enter the gold name and choose the gold type for example.
Newsletter sign up.
So in this example here I'm just setting up a goal to track how many newsletter sign ups I've got.
I'm picking the destination goals really at measuring how many people arrive at a certain destination
on my site like a thank you page and there are other types of goals like adjuration.
If they've been inside for five minutes pages per session events and smart goals and really for Google
Analytics the destination and event goals and the main goal types that you'll be setting up now then
you want to enter the goal details a step three song and enter the moral of the page that is shown when
a user converts or completes the conversion process.
In this case for my e-mail newsletter sign up when they pop in their email.
The next page they see is the thankyou page and in that way I know that every person who lands on the
thank you page must have signed up to the email address or email newsletter and that's how we really
can't have any sun.
I've got now at the bottom even click verify which I've done here.
Tonsure it's working and I can see that three point two percent of my visitors over the last 7 days
sign up to my email lists.
That's a great metric for me to focus on and improve now there are a couple of additional and optional
steps you can do when setting up goals of article value and if each newsletter sign up was worth one
dollar to your business you could set a goal value equal to one.
And just know if you want to track actual revenue made from purchases you would need to turn on e-commerce
tracking and talk about that in a seconds.
You can also add the gold funnel here just by clicking on the button.
I measured the drop off at each stage of the code completion process and once again this is really best
suited to e-commerce because for newsletter sign up there is just one step in the process.
Go to the Thank-You page.
That's not as relevant there.
Let's look now at the steps to set up e-commerce tracking and to measure transactions and revenue.
You firstly need to go to the admin section then come to e-commerce settings and enable the e-commerce
and even enhanced e-commerce reports here.
Now there is a second step you need to implement additional e-commerce tracking so that's additional
code that you need to put on your Web site.
And that is a little bit complicated.
I've included all the details to there so you can click through.
You might need a developer to help you with that.
But the great news is that sites like Shopify presta shop they've already set up all that stuff for
you automatically Cetus need to enable those reports and you're going to see all the e-commerce revenue
and data reports there.
Now a couple of key key goal reports is the goals you are l where you can see the pages the goals were
completed on the reverse goal path that shows you the three steps that users took prior to completing
the Selecta goal as well as the page in which they completed the goals.
So again you can see what influenced them and look at those steps.
There's the funnel visualization report and this report takes the reverse go path a step further and
shows the the drop off on success rates of each step leading up to the conversion.
And you also have the gold flow report and this report was designed to be an improved version of the
funnel visualization report.
It's a bit more flexible you can add segments into it and it's better able to show converters who skipped
stages in that conversion for funnel.
So you might be able to even figure out hey people are skipping that step.
Maybe I don't need it in order for them to convert.
So a couple of limited caveats to me whereby my goals are limited to 20 per reporting view and goals
actually can be deleted but they can be edited.
So if you're not using them you can add them or you can just create a new reporting view and you get
20 more goals.
Goals also can be applied retrospectively to data for it's best practice to set them up as soon as you
set up your property.
You can really track how many visitors are completing those important actions and it's important to
be aware how they're measured as well.
So a conversion is counted once per session per configured goal.
So if you've defined a goal then loading a PTF and the user downloads a PDA five times in the same session.
This will only count as one conversion event cause as you've seen as one of the options there if you
wanted for example to click or to measure how many people clicked a video or clicked call click to call
on a mobile site.
Well that would require you set up event tracking and we'll be looking at that in the Advanced Google
Analytics course.
And finally you all have seen the option there for smart goals is one of the gold types you can pick
and just you should be aware that this is specifically designed to help Google Ads advertisers who may
not have enough convergence to use these Google special optimization tools so it sounds like something
that you would want to use but just be aware it's just for Google advertisers.
So those are how you set up goals some of the example goes you can track some of the limits and caveats
to be aware of let's go through how to navigate Google Analytics and it's really important that you
understand the Google Analytics lead and navigation so that you can quickly find the reports tools and
features that you need.
So there are a couple of key controls here that you really need to be aware of and to really go through
them.
I'm going to jump into the Google Analytics demo and show you firsthand.
So up here in the top left we have the cam property view switcher and if you multiple a cancer properties
or views set up you can easily switch between them using this control and then below this we have the
search feature.
So you can access key reports quickly with a needing to kick click down through all the navigation here.
So for example you can start typing in the name of report and it'll pop right up and you can click through.
Now below this we have the home page and this is really a summary of your side's vital signs and you
can use it as a quick check to see that everything is behaving as expected.
Already as a starting point for deeper analysis you can see links to the full reports that you'll find
in the turn navigation here.
Now below this we have customization and this section allows you to create custom dashboards reports
save reports and create custom alerts that are specific to your business so incredibly useful section
of Google Analytics and down below this we really have the main section where all your reports are categorized.
There are about 100 pre-configured reports in Google Analytics.
Broken down into five sections real time audience acquisition behavior and conversions there below that
we have the admin section and this contains all your Google Analytics settings such as user permissions
tracking code view settings filters where your set up goals and so that's an important place especially
for the Google Analytics set up.
Now coming back to the home page is a couple of other navigation controls and features that are very
helpful and one is the analytics intelligence and this is a set of features that uses machine learning
to help you better understand and act on your data so you can type B in real human questions here and
you can get answers to them.
And this too will also surface some insights for you and really bring up important information about
your data.
For example here YouTube's performing worse than other referral traffic.
So that's something we might want to look at and maybe not do so much on that marketing channel and
focus on another one.
So it's an incredibly useful set of features.
It's essentially like having your own personal Google Analytics assistance.
Now we also have a peer the alerts section which will may include data like something like your site
is not set up properly or collecting data properly or a setting that needs to be optimized.
That's important to keep an eye on as well.
And one of the most useful features in the Google Analytics lead is the help and this allows you to
access the help center inside Google Analytics itself so you don't even have to leave an open it or
search in Google.
So for example if there's any reports or metrics that you don't understand you can just type demen get
a quick look at it here and go back to analyzing your reports.
So that is the Google Analytics lead and some of the key navigation controls.
So you can really find the key tools features and reports that you need for your business.
Let's go through the main tools for analysis and you can use these tools and controls across any Google
Analytics report to analyze your data.
So I think it makes sense for you to get familiar with them upfront now before we start analyzing all
the different reports.
So there are a number different reporting to tools and throws for analysis.
And once again to bring these to life I'm going to jump into the Google Analytics demo cans and come
down and start with the analytics overview report.
So up in the top right here we have the date range selector and here you can set the time period in
which you want to analyze your reports so you can set this as custom and really extended it to a big
timeframe like six months or a year.
Now will give you a completely different timeframe to analyze your data or you can do it for last week
today where even the last 30 days.
Just be aware that by default today is not included because today's not over yet.
So just include that if you want to see data from today.
I'm going to change this to the last seven days and then look at the second control for analysis which
is the date range comparison.
This allows you to compare data from two different date ranges and see how your business has changed
over time.
So I can just click over apply and then over the last compared to the last period I can see that for
some of my key metrics I'm down here.
So this is a great place to really start my analysis and to do that.
I can just take a quick reply and I'm back to the original view.
Now we're up at the top of all the reports is where you're going to see the options segments and you
can add segments to report to compare different subsets of data that we'll be looking at this in more
detail in the advanced Google Analytics course.
But this is similar to the date range comparison where you're really comparing different segments of
users and drawing insights out of the differences between them.
Now below that we have the line graph and here you can see different metrics in line graph for the date
range you've selected.
You also have the metric selector.
So by default this will usually be users but you can select and change it to any different metric you
want from the drop down and see that displayed in a line graph and you also have for the line graph
the duration selector.
So changing this two months doesn't make sense obviously on a seven day range but this can be really
helpful if you're looking at a much longer time frame like six months or a year.
So you can really just get that big picture view now below the line graph there is the graph annotator.
And this allows each to annotate the graph with helpful notes to our business context to your data.
So for example if you did a marketing campaign had a big spike in traffic you might just want to note
that then because when you look back and reports in six months time or year some you might forget what
was the cause of that.
And this allows you just to build up a really good picture of your data and how will that business context
next to it.
Very helpful also if you're working with a team so you can share notes there.
Now an important control on these reports that you should be aware of is the sampling rate and it doesn't
really make a difference for these small reports like this where there's not a lot of data.
You can see that the report is based on 100 percent of the sessions.
But oftentimes Google Analytics because such huge amount of data we'll just take a small percentage
of those sessions or a sample of them and create a report based on that.
So just be aware that if you want to get faster response you can select that option and it will just
select a small sample of the data to speed up the report being generated.
Now up at the top here you have the option to really share or refer back to meaningful data that you
found.
You can even share them by e-mail and that can be very helpful to share with colleagues or different
clients.
So those are some of the main tools for analysis in an overview report.
Now I really want to dive into the geo location report and really show you one of the best tools for
analysis in Google Analytics that you're going to find in these full reports on it is the data table
that you can see here.
So the way that these data tables are laid out in all of these full reports is that Dan here in the
Rose you have what Google Analytics calls a dimension and this is really just described to your data
in this case the dimension is the country and across in the columns here you have the different metrics.
So we have metrics that relate to the acquisition to behavior such as time on sites or average session
duration.
And we have metrics related to conversions like the number of transactions and the revenue.
Now just remember that just to get these type of metrics in your reports you will have to set up goals
or enable e-commerce tracking.
Now the great thing about these data tables is that you can really manipulate the data and that allows
you to really dig down deep into the data.
So right now you can see that I can see that US is the top country in terms of the number of users over
the last seven days.
But if I were interested to look at the top countries in terms of revenue then I can change the metric
in this table and just notice here that India is the second most popular country in terms of number
of users.
But if I change to revenue you can see that it doesn't even appear in the top 10.
So having that conversion data is really helpful and you can manipulate it to change it to really any
different metric in the data table to change it back.
You can just click on it and you'll notice this little down arrow is how you'll know what metric the
table is organized by now as well as changing the metrics.
You can also change the primary dimension.
So if I want to see this table just by the city and see the top cities I can see that here and I can
also add a secondary dimension if I want Suffa go back to country as being the primary dimension.
I can add a secondary dimension of city and that in and now I can see the top city in the top country
and not Elize me.
As I said a lot more granular and dig in to the data.
Now as well as really changing the way the data table is displayed you can actually change the way it's
presented visually as well.
So by default it'll be on the data table option here but you can change it to display a pie chart.
So it shows the contribution to the total for the selected metric and you can change the metric there
again.
You also have the performance option which shows a horizontal byte bar chart showing the relative performance
of the Select metric and you can change that again next to the comparison view which displays a bar
chart plot and performances selected metric relative to the side average.
So we can see that this city is really performing twenty four thousand times above the site average.
So if we were really wanted to focus our marketing efforts this is where the city in the particular
country were were before we performing because we could expect to get results that are way above the
side average.
And finally have the pivot option here as well which can be great if you've added the secondary dimension
and we want to see everything laid out in a pivot table.
So those are some of the main tools for analysis for not only the overview reports but also the full
reports with the knowledge of how to use these tools.
You're now ready to start analyzing with Google Analytics.
Let's go through now how to analyze some of the key reports in Google Analytics.
And as I mentioned there are over 100 pre-configured reports in Google Analytics.
I was going to take us through the top 20.
So you really know the information to focus on and we're going to get started with the audience reports
and are provide insight into the characteristics of your users.
And here are some of the benefits of these audience reports.
Personally I find it much easier to understand why you can use them for.
And then you can dive into Google Analytics and have a look for the data.
So the first benefit is that you can build a buyer persona with these reports.
You can understand the age gender location and interests of your most valuable users and then target
them in future acquisition campaigns and tailor your site content and messaging to address their needs.
So this is really a huge benefit that really improves not only your marketing but your whole business.
You can also use the audience reports to expand into new markets.
You could set up offices or better shipping options for countries where you're getting a lot of traffic
from.
You can also use the audience reports to fix technical issues blocking sales and you couldn't go into
the technical reports and look for high Banse rates and that really signal that maybe you weren't side
or app has an issue with a particular device or browser.
You could also use them to plan your development needs and if you wanted to build an app for example
you would know using the mobile report's if your visitors are more likely to visit on an art to use
it on an Apple Android or Windows device.
And also in these audience reports pretty cool they have benchmarking reports and you can see higher
marketing channels and the location and devices of the users compared to the competition.
So here are some of the key audience reports.
Let's quickly jump into the Google Analytics demo cans and I'll show you where they are.
So we have the demographics overview report and this will show the age and gender makeup of your audience.
We also have the interest reports here which actually can be pretty cool to understand the interests
of your audience.
And this allows you to maybe expand into different Kadlec product or content categories.
Now below that we have the technology reports and this is where you'll really see the browsers and operating
systems that your users are using to access your site and you can filter this by the by and straight
metric to really identify where there might be issues.
If you see the bands rate is 100 percent or very high well maybe your site isn't accessible from that
device.
And just to remind you the balance rate is really the percentage of single page sessions so it's people
looking to your device and they only looked at one page.
If you see that that's almost 100 percent well then that's an indication that it's not working at all.
Now for tiny numbers you probably won't need to bother fixing that.
But for where there's significant numbers you really want to make sure your site is working on those
devices.
Now you also have the mobile reports which shows it to break then and the device is used to access your
Web site.
And also the benchmarking reports which compare your property's performance that that of your industry
peers.
So for example in the channel's report you may need to select some of these options here and select
your industry vertical country and size.
But I can see that compared to some of my competitors I have 72 percent more referral traffic and a
better lower Banse rate as well.
So these are some good indicators and insights into how I'm doing compared to the competition.
Now just a quick note for the demographics and interest reports.
If you want to get the age and gender of your visitors you must first go to your property settings and
then enable advertising features to collect this data and once you've been able that you are required
to notify visitors by disclosing in your private policy.
And I've linked off to here to where Google really gives you more information about that.
But it's just more information.
And for privacy reasons you're required to put it into your privacy policy.
And that really wraps up hides to analyze your audience reports that is continued to look at how to
analyze the key Google Analytics reports.
And now we're moving on to the acquisition reports which show how the Web site acquires users.
And there are many benefits to the acquisition of sports but the main one really is that allows you
to optimize your marketing and compare the performance of different marketing channels and allocate
resources to what's working Seacom really maximize results and some of the specifics are like seeing
which Hywel channel drives conversions identify traffic sources you could potentially grow you want
to look for ones with high conversion with low to medium demands traffic you can identify budget gaps
and maybe invest more in traffic sources that are delivering or outperforming in terms of traffic and
sales.
You can track the return on Social Media traffic.
Identify the best performing social media sites and identify web site owners who are referring traffic
to your site and he can build the relationships with them and seek out similar sites to growing traffic.
So lots of ways you can use them.
The key really benefit is that they can help optimize your marketing.
So some of the key reports here we are going to go through and are to jump into the Google Analytics
demo can to bring you through them.
So were looking firstly at the channels report here and this shows you how well each channel drives
traffic and conversions so we can see the number of users here which is that the traffic we can see
the number of conversions as well.
And really there is a breakdown in terms of the channels here.
So just briefly explain them organic search is visitors who are coming to your web sites after searching
Google Larcom or other search engines direct traffic is going to be visitors who come to your web site
with the added traceable referral source so that can include anything from technical errors to also
people who typed the year you whirl into their address bar directly or he use a bookmark browser referral
traffic is really visitors who come to your Web site from another web site by clicking on a link.
Social traffic is visitors come to your website from social network paid searches obviously paid search
advertisements like on Google Display advertising can be from Google as well across their network of
sites and affiliates can also just be affiliates that are referring traffic to your site as well.
So after that we're moving on to the source media report where you can also look to see how different
traffic sources and their mediums really compared to each other.
So the source is really the origin of your traffic so the traffic source the source it's the origin
of the Web site visitor and you can see here that there's lots of different potential sources like Facebook
dot com your newsletter name direct That's people are coming direct and then you can see YouTube dot
com different partner sites et cetera.
And then the medium which is the second part of this really explains how the visitor arrived from that
source so we can see Google organic here meaning that they came from Google by clicking on organic search
results.
You can also see have a Google CPC.
So cost per click which really means that they came from paid search and you can see referral there.
So there's a number of different traffic and or source medium combinations.
So really by looking at this report you can get huge insight into what's working and what you should
really focus on.
Just noticed that you can expand this data table from 10 rows to something much bigger if you really
want to look at a whole host of different source medium combinations.
Now we're moving on to the referrers report and this leaves Zeid search engines and direct traffic and
only shows web site domains including social networks that have referred traffic to your Web site.
And this could be individual blogs or publications.
So previously I personally have seen a site here that was referring a lot of traffic to my site.
I had never had contact to them.
But I said well let me reach out to these guys.
Tell them a little bit more about what I'm doing.
And we were able to develop a relationship and they sent me a lot more traffic.
And then I went go for similar sites because I saw what was valuable to them for their audience for
pointing them towards my site.
So this is a great report to really build those relationships and find similar side Second help you
grow.
Now the search Konsole report is a really sweet report that relates to organic search and in particular
here you can see for example the queries that people really typed into Google in order to click through
to your site.
You can see the landing pages that they're really coming to here.
And just note that you do need to set up the search console and link this to your Google Analytics account
in order to get this data into your account and I put a link to that in these slides now as well as
that we have the social reports here where you can see the number of conversions from social media sites
and the behavior of social media video visitors here in the network referrals from Porsche.
And you can even see all the landing pages the really the pages that people arrive on your site from
social media.
So there are some fantastic reports all that you can use to really compare the forms of marketing channels
and grow the traffic and sales on your site.
Now couple of limits and caveats that you should be aware of if for technical reasons Google can't identify
the traffic source.
It'll be added to the direct channel.
As I said and appear in the source medium report as direct none because if they can't identify the traffic
source then the medium they're just going to put ads on.
And for a lot of people this can be quite frustrating because a large portion of their traffic appears
is this.
And so to combat that one of the best things that you can do is use campaign tagging to reduce this
direct traffic from your own email campaigns and your marketing campaigns.
I'm going to talk about the process to really set up campaign tagging later on in this training.
But a lot of people think Google or hiding traffic from them.
That's not the case.
They just can't identify it.
But others said campaign tagging really helps with that.
So let's continue on now and look at how to analyze behavior reports and these really provide insight
into the behavior of users on your site.
And there's a couple of key reasons that you'd want to use these one is to find content ideas and you
can see the pages on your site that get the most traffic and the highest engagements and you can improve
this top reforming content to climb the search results or use it as a guide to your future content decisions.
You can also use behavior points to make a better first impression and identify the first pages users
see in a session on your site and improve them to reduce those bands rates to make sure they continue
on through the site and to complete those conversions.
And especially if you drive paid traffic to your site you really want to make sure you're making that
first impression.
Otherwise you're wasting a lot of money.
You can also use the behavior reports to stop users from leaving the site and identify the pagers where
users are leaving your site.
You can minimize these unwanted exits for example from the shopping cart check guide or people who aren't
converting before leaving your site so you can encourage them to maybe get a pop up to sign up to your
e-mail that are on those exit pages.
Now also you can improve page load speed and this is something critical because site slowness is a top
reason why users banned and purchase on e-commerce sites.
And according to Google if pages have a loading time of more than one second it really damages the user
experience.
So those are some of the benefits of really digging in and analyzing these behavior reports as a couple
of key reports.
And once again I'm really going to dive into the Google Analytics demo can you show you quickly where
these are so coming down into the behavior section site content with the all pages reports where you
can see the pages on your site that get the most traffic and the highest engagements you can use those
3D inform future content decisions.
Below that we've the landing pages report and these are the first pages viewed in a session and a high
bounce rate usually indicates that the page content is not relevant or engaging those users so these
are pages you really might want to improve if they're getting a substantial amount of visits coming
now of the exit pages reports which show the last pages people visit on your site on your Web site before
exiting.
So again you want to optimize those.
And he can even use good performing pages by using the site comparison feature here.
To really look at which which are the good performing pages of the XXX pages and take some of those
lessons and apply them to the poor performing pages.
Now below here we have these sites search reports as well.
And these let you understand the extent to which users take advantage of your search site's search function.
If you have one which search terms they entered and this can really help you understand why people can
find on your site and you can improve the user experience based on that.
So that really wraps up how to analyze the behavior reports and also analyze the key reports on Google
Analytics.
Let's go through the steps to set up Google Analytics dashboards and the benefit of doing so.
So dashboards are an easy way to see an overview of the reports and metrics that you care about most.
And there are a lot of benefits to dashboards.
The main one is that you can monitor many metrics at once so you can quickly check the health of your
accounts on a glance and by having a lot of different metrics together you can see correlations between
different reports that you wouldn't necessarily see by clicking into the individual reports separately.
You can create dashboards for different roles or metrics such as if you want to see all the metrics
for site performance for e-commerce or PPC one place you can do that with dashboards and they're very
easy to create and customize and share.
And the great thing is is that you can import dashboards from the Google Analytics Dema can yourself
to some great one set up there or you can go to the google analytics solutions gallery on loads of people
have shared different ones there so some really cool things that you can import directly into your account
in one click.
And here is one example dashboard that's actually in the Google Analytics demo and it's called side
performance.
And you might be able to see here so in the Mattrick site average page load time page loads be met on
mobile and some really important technical kind of metrics here together so someone who is maybe the
technical role in a company this would be their dashboard.
They wouldn't really care about say the blog content cetera.
So how do you add dashboards.
Well you just can import them as I said or to create your own go to customization DR-DOS dashboards
and then create create and then you need to add the widgets so these widgets provide snapshots of standard
reports or customer reports.
Or you can create your own widgets by selecting the different metrics that you want to see there.
Now to share your Dazs boards with other users you can do that via the share many Once you set them
up and you can share them by email or export them to PDSA that can be handy for clients or colleagues
or bosses.
And you can also share them into the solutions gallery as well.
And note that if you click the shared template link as you would do if you're sharing to the gallery
they're not going to be able to see your web site data.
They will just see add the template for the widgets that you're set up.
So a couple of limits and caveats that you should be aware of about dashboards at each of the links
you can contain up to 20 dashboards per user and each dashboard can contain up to 12 widgets.
So that wraps up the steps to set up dashboards and the benefits of doing so.
Let's look at how you can better track the performance of your marketing campaigns in Google Analytics
with campaign tagging and campaign tagging helps you really determine which marketing campaigns are
driving the most traffic or convergence.
And the reason that you would need these is because by default Google Analytics is actually not able
to identify the different digital marketing campaigns that send visitors to your Web site.
As we've seen they can identify the source and the medium such as Facebook or furl but it can't determine
which Facebook posts or even add the traffic came from.
And campaign tagging this process really lets you overcome this limitation and get that visibility into
which of your marketing campaigns are performing.
And if you're running email campaigns campaign tagging really rises from a good idea to critical and
this is because traffic from e-mail will be grossly under-report under reported.
Google Analytics can really identify where the traffic is coming from so it might just filers under
direct none in your acquisition reports.
So it's really important to do this.
If not you will be grossly under-reported.
If you don't type all links pointing back to your site from e-mail and if you're running paid search
outside of odd words or add words campaigns without order with or tagging disabled and these visits
may show up as organic it so that's important to do for paid campaigns outside of bad words and also
campaign tagging consolidates all campaign data into a set of campaign reports found under acquisition
campaigns.
So how do you tag campaign links.
What's the process.
First thing you want to do is open up the campaign world builder.
And this is briefly what it looks like here.
No they have to do is fill in these different fields and tag the things that you're going to be using
in your marketing campaigns that these campaign tags they're also known as UTM tags or parameters and
really just want to add these to the link that you'll be using in your campaigns.
And in that way that information can be captured by Google Analytics and added to those campaign reports.
So next thing you want to do is add the campaign tags and note that medium source and campaign are required
campaign tags and you can add content or turn.
So in the world builder here there is a bit of an explanation about what you need to be putting in in
each field.
So that's maybe your blog posts.
It could be you're posting this to link to Facebook and it could be the spring sale.
So you just are all of those in need and these other ones in here as options as well.
Now good tip is if you're not sure what sourcer medium to really include There you can look at the existing
categorisations in the source media and report on those in.
So once you have added in the different campaign tags you just want to copy copy and paste the campaign
your L and then paste the Tagalongs into your email or your Facebook posts or just like a normal link
you would.
So I've added here to this and fill this site in this example.
I've added in Facebook as my source medium as my so are social as my medium and I've just put the campaign
name a spring sale and that's going to appear then in my campaign reports.
So I just paste that in like a normal link.
The user when they click on it they won't even really see it.
So let it be collected by Google Analytics.
So for reference here is a look at some of the campaign tags and a bit more detail.
So medium and source you should be familiar with already campaign is just the name of your campaign.
Back to School content will be different versions of a promotion like two ads you can version one $10
off version to no promo and then term is used to identify keywords for a paid search campaigns.
So you would only use this field if your money really tagging the paid search campaign.
Being on Yahoo.
Now as I said the reporting you can view the campaign reports here and really to verify that the campaign
debt is collecting.
You can just come down there and check that out after 24 hours.
To make sure that that is appearing in here are a couple of tips for the campaign tagging that will
just make it a little bit easier for you if you are advertising with odd words you can actually enable
what's known as auto tagging.
So you don't need to do this process if you've enabled auto tagging you just simply need to link your
google analytics or advocates to Google Analytics and enable auto tagging and that will share all this
campaign data automatically.
So that's a nice integration there between Google ads and Google Analytics.
Now also you can often enable audit tagging for e-mail and all the tagging can be set up for e-mail
providers like MailChimp I a link to the instructions there.
And similarly once that set up link clicks from e-mails will automatically be recorded in Google and
acts as the subject of the e-mail that doesn't require you to do this manual tagging process.
Also people often ask is it required for Facebook ads to really do this manual tagging.
Yes if the Facebook Ads manager will give you a lot of insights about the performance of your ads and
even track conversions if you've set up the Facebook pixel.
However by tagging your links you'll be able to see.
Watch your audience is interested in before and after those conversions.
Get more information.
And this can help you promote relevant items or make sure the conversion path is also optimized and
see what your biggest biggest hits in terms of content are.
So those are a couple of bonus tips for campaign tagging to make it easier for you.
And that really wraps up the steps and the process to tag campaign links and really the benefit of doing
so.
Let's go through the steps and the benefits of linking Google ads with Google Analytics Google ads is
Google's advertising platform that helps advertisers reach new customers online.
And it used to be called Google outwards in the past.
Now why would you want to link google ads with Google Analytics.
Well you can really see a ton of extra information.
And for example you can now see the full customer cycles so from how customers interact with your marketing.
Like seeing ad impressions clicking ads too high or they finally complete the goals you set up for them
on your site like making a purchase or consuming content.
And it's really this extra day that I can help you better analyze performance of your ad campaigns.
You can also enable auto tanking once you've linked to a cancer as well.
Or when you link your Google Analytics on Adwords accounts campaign that is shared between the two systems.
But you still require that manual campaign tagging.
So really to automatically add a special tag called equal Kalid tier Google ads or els you can enable
or tagging and really save yourself the work from manually tagging campaign links.
You can also set up free marketing campaigns.
Once you've linked your cance and build user audiences in Google Analytics and show targeted ads to
bring users back to web site and encourage a conversion.
So those are some of the key benefits of linking alliance with Google Analytics.
So how do you actually link your Google ads and Google Analytics exchange.
Well first you go to your Google Analytics property you're going to see the option there to do Google
ads linking and you can just add your new link group there and really link this property and this view
to your outwards accounts.
The second step then if you want to get the benefit of ordered tagging you go into your odd words it
can't and you go to settings and then it can settings the checkbox and just click save and you will
have then linked to your account and also enabled or tightening.
Once you've done that you'll be able to see or Google ads reports in Google Analytics and there is a
specific section underneath the acquisition reports for Google ads and you'll find them there and you'll
be able to see all that extra information in your Google Analytics account so that really wraps up the
steps and the benefits of linking Google lines to your Google Analytics account.
That wraps up Google Analytics for beginners in this training just as a reminder you have learned why
you should be using Google Analytics how it works how to set it up and the best practices of adding
additional reporting views filters and goals how to navigate Google Analytics.
The main tools for analysis how to analyze reports and what reports really focus on how to set up dashboards
better track marketing campaigns or campaign tagging and the steps and benefits of linking analytics
to with Google ads.
So I hope you feel very confident now in your ability with Google Analytics and I really encourage you
to keep in mind the importance of Google Analytics not only for you as a marketer business owner or
as an entrepreneur.
You can make those data driven decisions but also for a career in this business.
And just remember with that analytics in place you're really flying blind.
So to help you out I've put these slides in the description.
You can download them and refer back to them any time.
So you can really use google analytics as a powerful tool to grow a business.
Thanks for watching.